Aniesha Sangarapillai
CART263 Creative Computation II
Pippin Barr

Project 1 - Sisyphus - Artist Statement

After reading about Sisyphus, I decided to create a simple game that illustrates the concept of Sisyphus’s punishment, a task that is repetitive and has no way of achieving the goal. Initially, I did have some difficulties creating the game. I started in javascript and was thinking of recreating the game in jquery as I felt more comfortable in jquery. After meeting with Pippin, I took his suggestion that we should first think about what we want to do, then proceed with looking at the tools which we can use to easily achieve the game rather than forcing a tool into a game. I decided to create my game using just javascript. I did have some difficulty starting the project to get my rock to move. I have received some assistance from Sabine to structure my code in a better format to proceed (see help log folder).
My initial idea for the game was to create two mountains with two different positions (one on the left and right side). In this game, the user can only use 2 keys to move the rock. The right and left arrow keys. When the user moves the rock and it reaches more than half of the canvas width, the mountain on the right side would disappear and the mountain on the left would appear. As the user tries to approach the mountain on the left, the mountain on the left would disappear as the rock reaches less than the canvas width and the mountain on the right would appear. In the end, the user would be stuck in the middle between both mountains rolling it back and forth trying to get it up a mountain. Due to the constant position change of the mountain, the user will never be able to get the rock up the mountain. Just like Sisyphus’s myth, the user interaction with the game is repetitive with no way of winning the game. 
Later, I changed my mind to have just one mountain. I set a timer to have it at 25 seconds. Just like Sisyphus’s punishment, the user’s goal again is to get the rock up the mountain. The only difference is, the user will need to get the rock up the mountain within 25 seconds. They keys to operate the game are the right, left and U keys. The right and left keys will move the rock horizontally, and the U key will let you move the rock up the mountain. I set a reasonable time limit that may seem possible to achieve but it is really just a few seconds less than the achievable time. No matter how many times the user plays the game, the user can never get the rock up the mountain on time and the end result will be the same every time. I decided to not create a pop-up message that says that the time is over. Instead, I wanted the game to create a kind of repetitive cycle. Therefore, when the time is over, the rock returns back to its initial position and the user will have to continue pushing the rock. 
To create the aesthetics of the game, I illustrated the rock and background myself in Illustrator and created the mountain through javascript. For the sound, I used free sound from the FreeSound website (links below) for the rock movement and time over. 

Rock sound: https://freesound.org/people/AlanCat/sounds/381645/
Time over sound: https://freesound.org/people/deleted_user_877451/sounds/76376/


